README.md, before:

## RcppMsgPack [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/eddelbuettel/rcppmsgpack.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/eddelbuettel/rcppmsgpack) [![License](https://eddelbuettel.github.io/badges/GPL2+.svg)](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html) [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/RcppMsgPack)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=RcppMsgPack) [![Downloads](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/RcppMsgPack?color=brightgreen)](http://www.r-pkg.org/pkg/RcppMsgPack)

MsgPack Headers for R and interface functions

### About

This package provides [R](https://www.r-project.org) with both the
[MessagePack](http://msgpack.org/) (or MsgPack as a shorthand) header files, and the 
ability to access, create and alter [MessagePack](http://msgpack.org/) objects directly from
[R](https://www.r-project.org). 

[MessagePack](http://msgpack.org/) is an efficient binary serialization format.  
It lets you exchange data among multiple languages like JSON. But it is faster and smaller. 
Small integers are encoded into a single byte, and typical short strings require only one 
extra byte in addition to the strings themselves.  [MessagePack](http://msgpack.org/) is 
used by Redis and many other projects.

### Usage
#### C++ headers

To use the headers from this package, simply add it to the `LinkingTo:` field in the 
`DESCRIPTION` field of your R package---and the R package infrastructure tools will then 
know how to set include flags correctly on all architectures supported by R.

#### Interface functions
The functions `msgpack_pack` and `msgpack_unpack` allow you to serialize and de-serialize R objects respectively.  `msgpack_format` is a helper function to properly format R objects for input.  `msgpack_simplify` is a helper function to simplify output from MsgPack conversion.  

Msgpack EXT types are converted to raw vectors with EXT attributes containing the extension type.  The extension type must be an integer from 0 to 127.  

Msgpack Maps are converted to data.frames with additional class "map".  Map objects in R contain key and value list columns and can be simplified to named lists or named vectors.  The helper function `msgpack_map` creates map objects that can be serialized into msgpack.  

![flowchart](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/traversc/msgpack2R/master/vignettes/msgpack_flowchart.png "Conversion flowchart")
*A flowchart describing the conversion of R objects into msgpack objects and back.*

For more information on msgpack types, see [here](https://github.com/msgpack/msgpack/blob/master/spec.md).  

#### Example:
```
x <- as.list(1:1e6)
x_packed <- msgpack_pack(x)
x_unpacked <- msgpack_unpack(x_packed)
```

### Installation

The package is on [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org) and can be installed via
a standard

```r
install.packages("RcppMsgPack")
```

Pre-releases have been available via the [ghrr drat](http://ghrr.github.io/drat)
repository:

```{.r}
drat::addRepo("ghrr")
install.packages("RcppMsgPack")
```

### Status

The package currently includes the MessagePack headers version 2.1.5. 

### See Also

See the [BH](http://dirk.eddelbuettel.com/code/bh.html) package for related (and also
header-only) libraries from [Boost](http://www.boost.org/), and the
[RcppRedis](http://dirk.eddelbuettel.com/code/rcppredis.html) package for simple yet performant
Redis support.

### Bug Reports

The [issue tracker](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/rcppmsgpack/issues)
can be used for bug reports or feature requests.

### Author 

Dirk Eddelbuettel and [Travers Ching](https://github.com/traversc).

*Also, special thanks to [Xun Zhu](https://github.com/w9).*

### License

The R package is provided under the GPL (version 2 or later).  The included
MsgPack library is released under the same license as Boost, the BSL-1.0.

Commit message:

NA values and timestamp functions

README.md, after:

## RcppMsgPack [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/eddelbuettel/rcppmsgpack.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/eddelbuettel/rcppmsgpack) [![License](https://eddelbuettel.github.io/badges/GPL2+.svg)](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html) [![CRAN](http://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/RcppMsgPack)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=RcppMsgPack) [![Downloads](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/RcppMsgPack?color=brightgreen)](http://www.r-pkg.org/pkg/RcppMsgPack)

MsgPack Headers for R and interface functions

### About

This package provides [R](https://www.r-project.org) with both the
[MessagePack](http://msgpack.org/) (or MsgPack as a shorthand) header files, and the 
ability to access, create and alter [MessagePack](http://msgpack.org/) objects directly from
[R](https://www.r-project.org). 

[MessagePack](http://msgpack.org/) is an efficient binary serialization format.  
It lets you exchange data among multiple languages like JSON. But it is faster and smaller. 
Small integers are encoded into a single byte, and typical short strings require only one 
extra byte in addition to the strings themselves.  [MessagePack](http://msgpack.org/) is 
used by Redis and many other projects.

### Usage
#### C++ headers

To use the headers from this package, simply add it to the `LinkingTo:` field in the 
`DESCRIPTION` field of your R package---and the R package infrastructure tools will then 
know how to set include flags correctly on all architectures supported by R.

#### Interface functions
The functions `msgpack_pack` and `msgpack_unpack` allow you to serialize and de-serialize R objects respectively.  `msgpack_format` is a helper function to properly format R objects for input.  `msgpack_simplify` is a helper function to simplify output from MsgPack conversion.  

MsgPack EXT types are converted to raw vectors with EXT attributes containing the extension type.  The extension type must be an integer from 0 to 127.  MsgPack Timestamps are an EXT with type -1.  Timestamps can be encoded and decoded from `POSIXct` objects in R to MsgPack format with `msgpack_timestamp_encode` and `msgpack_timestamp_decode`.  

Msgpack Maps are converted to data.frames with additional class "map".  Map objects in R contain key and value list columns and can be simplified to named lists or named vectors.  The helper function `msgpack_map` creates map objects that can be serialized into msgpack.  

![flowchart](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/traversc/msgpack2R/master/vignettes/msgpack_flowchart.png "Conversion flowchart")
*A flowchart describing the conversion of R objects into msgpack objects and back.*

For more information on msgpack types, see [here](https://github.com/msgpack/msgpack/blob/master/spec.md).  

#### Example:
```
x <- as.list(1:1e6)
x_packed <- msgpack_pack(x)
x_unpacked <- msgpack_unpack(x_packed)
```

### Installation

The package is on [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org) and can be installed via
a standard

```r
install.packages("RcppMsgPack")
```

Pre-releases have been available via the [ghrr drat](http://ghrr.github.io/drat)
repository:

```{.r}
drat::addRepo("ghrr")
install.packages("RcppMsgPack")
```

### Status

The package currently includes the MessagePack headers version 2.1.5. 

### See Also

See the [BH](http://dirk.eddelbuettel.com/code/bh.html) package for related (and also
header-only) libraries from [Boost](http://www.boost.org/), and the
[RcppRedis](http://dirk.eddelbuettel.com/code/rcppredis.html) package for simple yet performant
Redis support.

### Bug Reports

The [issue tracker](https://github.com/eddelbuettel/rcppmsgpack/issues)
can be used for bug reports or feature requests.

### Author 

Dirk Eddelbuettel and [Travers Ching](https://github.com/traversc).

*Also, special thanks to [Xun Zhu](https://github.com/w9).*

### License

The R package is provided under the GPL (version 2 or later).  The included
MsgPack library is released under the same license as Boost, the BSL-1.0.
